# The Stock Ticker

This project offers users the possibility to request stock data via the publicly available Yahoo Finance API and visualize the data in a candlestick chart using the plotly package. The application is hosted on [http://thestockticker.pythonanywhere.com/](http://thestockticker.pythonanywhere.com/) using the flask package.

## Instructions

Follow these steps to set up and run the project:

1. Install the required packages listed in the `requirements.txt` file.

2. Create the main python file and name it `app.py`.

3. Specify the stock symbols and names for the pull down select in the `tickers.txt`.

4. Create the HTML files that will host the web visualization generated by your Python files.

   4.1 Create a file named `home.html` which will be the landing page for the user where the stock symbol can be selected.

   4.2 Create a file named `response.html` where the data of the requested stock symbol is retrieved and visualized.

   4.3. Create a file name `error.html` which will offer an error message in case the api response is empty.

5. Create a free user account on [PythonAnywhere](https://www.pythonanywhere.com/).

   5.1. Create a new file named `requirements.txt` and enter the required packages.

   5.2. Sign up for a Beginner account, which is free. Choose a username that fits the application you want to host, as it will be part of the URL (e.g., username "TheStockTicker" results in http://thestockticker.pythonanywhere.com/).

   5.3. Create a web app by clicking on the "Add a new web app" button.

   5.4. Select your Python web framework and choose Python Version 3.10.

   5.5. Create a file named `app.py` inside the newly created folder `/mysite` and copy the contents of your `app.py` file into it.

   5.6. Create a folder called `templates` within the `/mysite` folder. Name the HTML file `index.html` and copy the contents of your `index.html` file into it.

   5.7. Save the `requirements.txt` file in the `/mysite` folder and install all the listed packages by executing the following command in the bash console within the `/mysite` directory: `pip3 install -r requirements.txt --user`.

   5.8. Configure the root file by opening the WSGI configuration file: `/var/www/thestockticker_pythonanywhere_com_wsgi.py` in the Web tab. Change the import statement for Flask to `from app import app as application`. This is necessary to define the correct location of your Python file.

   5.9. Run the web application, reload the URL, access it, and have fun!

Feel free to explore the visualization of stock data.
